These tests exercise RIOT's CoAP implementations, [gcoap and nanocoap](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/wiki/CoAP-Home). The tests are automated with the use of [pytest](https://pytest.org/).

With all of these tests, your confidence in the results will increase by watching the CoAP messages in Wireshark.

These tests all were developed using native on a recent Ubuntu Linux. Tests that use the gcoap example may be run on real hardware. See the _Setup_ section below for information on the required environment variables.

Materials
=========

In addition to pytest, you'll need a recent copy of these projects:

* [aiocoap](https://github.com/chrysn/aiocoap)
* [libcoap](https://github.com/obgm/libcoap)

The _Setup_ section below assumes these projects are installed in source code form, not with pip or setup.py.

RIOT Examples
-------------
These tests use the following RIOT examples, which must be precompiled:

* gcoap
* nanocoap_server
* cord_ep
* cord_epsim

These tests also use the following RIOT tests, which must be precompiled:

* nanocoap_cli

Setup
=====
The network/board interfaces used for tests have evolved over time. The table below show the currently supported setups.


|       Test       |   Endpoints    | Client |
| ---------------- |--------------- | ------ |
| block1           | tap2os         | nanocoap |
| block2           | tap2os         | nanocoap |
| con_retry        | tap2tap        | nanocoap, gcoap |
| cord_ep          | tap2os, tun2os | gcoap |
| cord_epsim       | tap2os, tun2os | gcoap |
| observe          | tap2os, tun2os | gcoap |
| request_response | tap2os         | nanocoap, gcoap |
| request_response | tun2os         | gcoap |

Each test named above is implemented in the file **[name]_test.py**.

tap2os
------
Some of these tests use a tap interface to communicate between a native RIOT instance and the Linux desktop. They require an fd00:bbbb::/64 ULA-based network defined on the desktop as:
```
    $ sudo ip address add fd00:bbbb::1/64 dev tap0 scope global
```

Some tests do not allow specification of the address, so the test uses the TAP_LLADDR_SUT environment variable for the link local address for the RIOT endpoint, and TAP_LLADR_REMOTE for the address of the OS endopint. You can specify a link local address for tap with:
```
    sudo ip link set dev tap0 address 0:0:bb:bb:0:1
    sudo ip address add fe80::200:bbff:febb:1/64 dev tap0 scope link
```
Notice the REMOTE tap interface address uses host '1', while the SUT address for the RIOT board must use host '2'.

Some tests require environment variables. See `setup_env.sh`. You MUST adapt it to the paths on your machine, but then you can source it with:
```
    $ . setup_env.sh
```
As mentioned in the _Materials_ section, presently the script is based on installation of aiocoap and libcoap in source form.

tap2tap
-------
Some tests use a tap bridge to communicate between two RIOT instances. In this case the tests always use the link local network addresses generated by the OS. The tap bridge is setup with:

```
    $ cd $RIOTBASE/dist/tools/tapsetup/
    $ ./tapsetup -c 2

    # to delete the tap
    $ ./tapsetup -d
```

tun2os
------
Some tests allow use of a physical board for the RIOT instance. They require an fd00:bbbb::/64 ULA-based network defined on the desktop as:

```
    $ cd $RIOTBASE/dist/tools/tunslip/
    $ sudo ./tunslip6 -s ttyUSB0 -t tun0 fd00:bbbb::1/64
```


Running the tests
=================
See the pytest [usage documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/usage.html) for variations.
